---
layout: post
title: "Introducing HackCard"
quote: Let's make hackathons even more life-changing. For everyone.
image: false
video: false
---

I'll be using the word 'hacker' a lot. And a hacker, in this context, is a developer, programmer, designer or simply a hackathon attendee.

For those of you who don't know what a hackathon is, it's okay. You'll learn. And once you do, you'll probably want to go to one. I've been to a couple, and I've ran a couple, and I have to say that hackathons are epic. 

A hackathon is, in the most basic way explained, a place where computer scientists, programmers, developers and designers come together to come up with an idea for an app, website, software or machine and build it all within a limited amount of time, usually 24 hours. Within those 24 hours, food and sponsor merchandise is provided for free to attendees, and mentors come to help support their ideas and give them advice on how to improve their projects. At the end of the event, ideas can be rewarded based on certain criteria (funniest, best design etc.) but the grand prize winner is usually chosen based on the possible successfulness of an idea. There are many factors, like the product that each team has at the end of the event, the possible extensions to this product, its impact on a community etc. Usually, the judges are high-profile investors or successful tech-related organizations and corporations.

It sounds really technical, but once you're there you realise that hackathons have this magnificent atmosphere where over a hundred people from different cities, backgrounds and even continents come together to make friends and invent game-changing products out of brilliant ideas. The room's packed with free pizza and Red Bull, and everyone's having an amazing time.

A hackathon is already a rewarding experience. Thousands and thousands of young talented entrepreneurs and hackers attend hackathons every year, and build exciting, award-winning projects that kickstart their career lives. Those of them who don't win a prize end up receiving job offers from mentors and judges. Basically, hackathons are replacing job fairs around the world because of the brilliant projects that impress potential employers, but some of these projects never end up seeing the light of day because the team that built it never won a prize, and that's a lot of effort being thrown away. 

And that's a problem that the HackCard aims to solve.

{% include image.html url="/media/2014-04-16-hackcard/hackcard-digital1.png" width="100%" description="The hackcard." %}

HackCard is a physical loyalty card designed for hackers. Hackers can collect points for every hackathon they attend and for every project they build there. The more points you collect, you more you get in return. How does having your flight/train ticket paid for when traveling to attend a hackathon sound? All you need to do is scan the QR code on the back of your card on your way in, and you're done.

My favourite part about HackCard is that, unlike most of what you see or build at hackathons, it isn't virtual. It's real, something you can carry around with you like a debit card or a Nando's card or even a Pokémon gym badge. It's a problem-solver and a game-changer, and it's built and developed by one of the most dedicated people I know.

{% include image.html url="/media/2014-04-16-hackcard/hackcard-back1.png" width="100%" description="The back of the card." %}

When [Bilawal Hameed](http://twitter.com/bilawalhameed), the founder of [StudentHack](http://studenthack.com) (which was [my first hackathon](http://blog.faresalaboud.me/blog/studenthack/)) came to me and explained the idea to me, I knew his goal was clear: he wanted hackathons to be a culture, and not a competition, where everyone is a winner. He wanted HackCard to be the next big thing. Let alone that HackCard solves the problem of not-winning hacks never being looked upon, it also gives employers an easier way of seeing what their applicants have accomplished. It's a win-win situation. 

{% include image.html url="/media/2014-04-16-hackcard/app-mockup1.png" width="100%" description="HackCard for iOS." %}

And here's the best part (for me and you both): HackCard is free.

And I'm honoured to be part of such an epic initiative.

With this post, I'm proud to announce [the launch of HackCard](http://hackcard.org). The first batch will be available at participating hackathons across the UK.
<p style="text-align:center">
{% include image.html url="/media/2014-04-16-hackcard/hackcard-final1.png" width="100%" description="A problem-solving piece of beauty." %}
</p>
Check out our website, [hackcard.org](http://hackcard.org) and sign up for a card.

Follow us on [Twitter](http://twitter.com), and check out our [Facebook page](http://facebook.com/hackcard) for the latest updates and early-backer perks!

Interested in sponsoring hackcard? You can have your logo on the back of our card! Check out how you can sponsor us [here](https://www.dropbox.com/s/dkdb3wi6xo7wr6a/sponsorship.pdf)!